# 12.3 Site Reliability Engineering
One goal of Amazon’s “You Build It, You Run It” philosophy is to shorten the time between an incident and the repair of the problem. A second goal is to provide feedback to the developers so that they are aware of both the problems that occur and the information that is needed to troubleshoot and repair the problems. The mechanism to achieve these goals is that developers carry pagers and are the first responders to an incident. Although not explicitly stated, one consequence is that all developers of a service are paged to respond to an incident with their service.

Google, at around the same time, took a different approach with the same goals. They introduced the concept of Site Reliability Engineers (SREs). SREs differ from the Amazon philosophy in two ways. First, the scope of an SRE’s responsibility is a complete application rather than a single service. Second, SREs are a specialized team whose members have some development responsibility, but they are not expected to be as productive as developers who do not have SRE responsibilities. Being an SRE is physically and emotionally draining, and Google SREs serve a two year term, after which they can continue as SREs or return to regular development responsibilities.

Some differences between these approaches are
- Scope of responsibility. In the Amazon approach, the responder is responsible for the service that generates the alarm. In the Google approach, the responder is responsible for the application that has a service that generates the alarm. The service that generates the alarm may not be the one at fault in an incident. For example, suppose Service A depends on Service B and Service A is set to alarm when its latency exceeds a limit threshold. The cause of Service A exceeding its latency threshold may be that Service B is slow to respond. The responder must be able to recognize that the problem is with Service B and be able to repair the problem with a modification to Service B.
- Treatment of individual developers. The Amazon approach treats all the developers as having equal skill in troubleshooting and rapid repair. The Google approach identifies those developers who are especially skilled at troubleshooting and rapid repair and assigns them to a different organizational unit–the SRE group.
- Feedback to the development group. There are two parts to the response to an incident. First, a workaround to the problem must be found so that the system can return to operation. Second, the root cause of the incident must be identified and fixed. With the Amazon approach, the responder is a developer for the service that generated the alarm and so is integral to that team. In the Google approach, SREs must use more indirect mechanisms to influence the developers to fix the root cause.

One of the activities of an SRE is the building of tools. Since SREs are first responders, they can see where additional tools would be helpful. Because of the stress involved in being an SRE, Google restricts on-call activities to 50% of an SRE’s time. The remaining 50% can be spent either developing tools for use by SREs or doing development within a development team.

